README.md, before:

# Awesome-Swarm

[Swarm](https://www.ethswarm.org/) is an incentivized peer-to-peer storage and communication system. [Join the decentralized network with a Bee node](https://docs.ethswarm.org/docs/installation/quick-start), the basic building block of Swarm.

This is a list of free and open source projects related to Swarm and its growing ecosystem.

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to create your submission.

## Table of contents

Click on the menu icon next to [README.md](#readme) for a list of sections

## Projects

### Services

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Bee](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee) - Also referred to as the _node_ or the _client_, this service allows you to join the Swarm network

[Bee-Clef](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-clef) - External signer service for transactions, suitable for Bee

### Libraries

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Bee-JS](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-js) - A high-level Javascript library to interact with Bee through its REST API

[Mantaray-JS](https://github.com/ethersphere/mantaray-js) - A low-level Swarm manifest manipulation library

[Sepatree](https://github.com/dr-chesster/sepatree) - The SepaTree data structure abstracted on Swarm

[BeeJeez](https://github.com/beejeez/beejeez) - Javascript implementation of the handshake protocol and others based on libp2p

### CI/CD

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Beekeeper](https://github.com/ethersphere/beekeeper) - Orchestrate and test Bee clusters through Kubernetes

[Bee Factory](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-factory) - Sets up a Dockerized stack of Bee nodes including Ganache blockchain

[Bee Factory VPS](https://github.com/Cafe137/bee-factory-vps) - Provides an automatized way to set up Bee Factory on a fresh Ubuntu VPS

[Beeload Action](https://github.com/ethersphere/beeload-action) - GitHub Actions workflow for uploading data to the Swarm network

### UI

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Bee Dashboard](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-dashboard) - React project to troubleshoot and interact with your Bee node

[Gateway](https://github.com/ethersphere/gateway) - Gateway to the Swarm project, for uploading, downloading and sharing assets on the network

[Pastebee](https://github.com/1up-digital/pastebee) - Pastebin, but on Swarm and with unstoppable publishing

[Chess UI](https://github.com/dr-chesster/chess-ui) - Play, store and share Chess games on Swarm

### Tools

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Swarm CLI](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm-cli) - Do everything on Swarm with the power of the terminal

[Swarm Extension](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm-extension) - Official extension that adds Swarm support and injects Bee library to the browser

[Pastebee CLI](https://github.com/AuHau/pastebee-cli) - Upload to Pastebee via the CLI and share the Swarm hash

[Swarm CID Converter](https://github.com/agazso/swarm-cid-converter) - Convert Swarm hashes or links to CID and vice versa.

[Bee-FS](https://github.com/aloknerurkar/bee-fs) - FUSE filesystem for Bee

[Nextcloud Swarm Plugin](https://github.com/MetaProvide/nextcloud-swarm-plugin) - Plugin for bridging Nextcloud and Swarm.

### Smart Contracts

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Swap, Swear and Swindle](https://github.com/ethersphere/swap-swear-and-swindle) - Protocols for peer-to-peer accounting

[Storage Incentives](https://github.com/ethersphere/storage-incentives) - Smart contracts providing the basis for Swarm's storage incentivization model

### Documentations

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[The Book of Swarm](https://docs.ethswarm.org/the-book-of-swarm.pdf) - Storage and communication infrastructure for self-sovereign digital society back-end stack for the decentralised web

[Bee Docs](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-docs) - Documentation for the Swarm Bee Client. View at [docs.ethswarm.org](https://docs.ethswarm.org/docs/).

[Bee-JS Docs](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-js-docs) - Documentation for the Swarm Bee-js javascript library. View at [bee-js.ethswarm.org](https://bee-js.ethswarm.org/docs/).

### Community / Ecosystem

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Fair data society](https://fairdatasociety.org/) - Ecosystem initiative for ethical Web3

[FairOS](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/fairOS-dfs) - Distributed file system, key-value store and nosql store on Swarm (for developers)

[Fair data protocol enabling data interoperability](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/FIPs/blob/master/text/0001-fdp-roadmap.md) - Develop your dapp on Swarm fast and in an interoperable way

[Fairdrive](https://fairdrive.fairdatasociety.org/) - Decentralised and unstoppable "Dropbox" for end-users and developers

[Fairdrop](https://fairdrop.xyz) - Decentralised file sharing

[Galileo](https://app.galileo.fairdatasociety.org/) - Open Street Maps on Swarm

[Dracula](https://app.dracula.fairdatasociety.org/) - Hackmd-like markdown editor that works with Swarm

[SwarmScan](https://swarmscan.resenje.org/) - Get network insights

[Etherna.io](https://etherna.io/) - Decentralised Youtube on Swarm

[Social Archive](https://socialarchive.info/) - Archive your social media

[Swapchat 2.0](https://swapchat.bzz.link) - Decentralised, ephemeral, peer-to-peer, encrypted chat

[Hacker Manifesto](https://bah5acgza3gsduiek2cykkbj27jd7ug2vpzi3exbsfd76mjujqijcjvmo4mia.bzz.link) - The Hacker Manifesto on Swarm with a community funded postage stamp

[SwarmNFT library](https://github.com/igar1991/SwarmNFT) - JavaScript library for creating NFTs on Ethereum-compatible blockchains and storing content on Swarm

[videoNFT](https://github.com/pabloVoorvaart/videoNFT/) - NFT live streaming with Swarm (winner of EthBerlin3 2022 Freedom to Transact Track)

[DeBoot](https://github.com/awmacpherson/deboot) - DeBoot is a project to research and implement approaches to bootloading OS images from a decentralized storage network such as Swarm or IPFS.

[Swarm DAppNode Package](https://github.com/rndlabs/dappnodepackage-swarm) - Swarm DAppNode package for Swarm Mainnet with multi-platform (x86_64 and arm64) support. Testnet DAppNode packages can be found [here](https://github.com/rndlabs/dappnodepackage-swarm-testnet).

### Miscellaneous

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Swarm Bot](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm-bot) - Discord bot handling commands related to Swarm and its community

Commit message:

add some FDP links (#6)
FDP play, Blossom, Fairdrive repo, some rewording.

README.md, after:

# Awesome-Swarm

[Swarm](https://www.ethswarm.org/) is an incentivized peer-to-peer storage and communication system. [Join the decentralized network with a Bee node](https://docs.ethswarm.org/docs/installation/quick-start), the basic building block of Swarm.

This is a list of free and open source projects related to Swarm and its growing ecosystem.

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) to learn how to create your submission.

## Table of contents

Click on the menu icon next to [README.md](#readme) for a list of sections

## Projects

### Services

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Bee](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee) - Also referred to as the _node_ or the _client_, this service allows you to join the Swarm network

[Bee-Clef](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-clef) - External signer service for transactions, suitable for Bee

### Libraries

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Bee-JS](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-js) - A high-level Javascript library to interact with Bee through its REST API

[Mantaray-JS](https://github.com/ethersphere/mantaray-js) - A low-level Swarm manifest manipulation library

[Sepatree](https://github.com/dr-chesster/sepatree) - The SepaTree data structure abstracted on Swarm

[BeeJeez](https://github.com/beejeez/beejeez) - Javascript implementation of the handshake protocol and others based on libp2p

### CI/CD

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Beekeeper](https://github.com/ethersphere/beekeeper) - Orchestrate and test Bee clusters through Kubernetes

[Bee Factory](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-factory) - Sets up a Dockerized stack of Bee nodes including Ganache blockchain

[Bee Factory VPS](https://github.com/Cafe137/bee-factory-vps) - Provides an automatized way to set up Bee Factory on a fresh Ubuntu VPS

[Beeload Action](https://github.com/ethersphere/beeload-action) - GitHub Actions workflow for uploading data to the Swarm network

### UI

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Bee Dashboard](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-dashboard) - React project to troubleshoot and interact with your Bee node

[Gateway](https://github.com/ethersphere/gateway) - Gateway to the Swarm project, for uploading, downloading and sharing assets on the network

[Pastebee](https://github.com/1up-digital/pastebee) - Pastebin, but on Swarm and with unstoppable publishing

[Chess UI](https://github.com/dr-chesster/chess-ui) - Play, store and share Chess games on Swarm

### Tools

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Swarm CLI](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm-cli) - Do everything on Swarm with the power of the terminal

[Swarm Extension](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm-extension) - Official extension that adds Swarm support and injects Bee library to the browser

[Pastebee CLI](https://github.com/AuHau/pastebee-cli) - Upload to Pastebee via the CLI and share the Swarm hash

[Swarm CID Converter](https://github.com/agazso/swarm-cid-converter) - Convert Swarm hashes or links to CID and vice versa.

[Bee-FS](https://github.com/aloknerurkar/bee-fs) - FUSE filesystem for Bee

[Nextcloud Swarm Plugin](https://github.com/MetaProvide/nextcloud-swarm-plugin) - Plugin for bridging Nextcloud and Swarm.

### Smart Contracts

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Swap, Swear and Swindle](https://github.com/ethersphere/swap-swear-and-swindle) - Protocols for peer-to-peer accounting

[Storage Incentives](https://github.com/ethersphere/storage-incentives) - Smart contracts providing the basis for Swarm's storage incentivization model

### Documentations

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[The Book of Swarm](https://docs.ethswarm.org/the-book-of-swarm.pdf) - Storage and communication infrastructure for self-sovereign digital society back-end stack for the decentralised web

[Bee Docs](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-docs) - Documentation for the Swarm Bee Client. View at [docs.ethswarm.org](https://docs.ethswarm.org/docs/).

[Bee-JS Docs](https://github.com/ethersphere/bee-js-docs) - Documentation for the Swarm Bee-js javascript library. View at [bee-js.ethswarm.org](https://bee-js.ethswarm.org/docs/).

### Community / Ecosystem

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Fair data society](https://fairdatasociety.org/) - Ecosystem initiative for ethical Web3

[FairOS](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/fairOS-dfs) - Distributed file system, key-value store and nosql store on Swarm (for developers)

[Fair Data Protocol roadmap enabling data interoperability](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/FIPs/blob/master/text/0001-fdp-roadmap.md) - Develop your dapp on Swarm fast and in an interoperable way

[FDP play](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/fdp-play) - CLI tool to spin up local development FDP environment and Bee cluster with Docker

[Blossom browser extension](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/blossom) - Browser Extension based on Fair Data Protocol that acts as a web3 framework for dApps and a Fair Data Society account manager for end-users

[Fairdrive](https://fairdrive.fairdatasociety.org/) - Decentralised and unstoppable "Dropbox" for end-users and developers using Fair Data Protocol

[Fairdrive code](https://github.com/fairDataSociety/fairdrive-theapp) - Code for decentralised and unstoppable "Dropbox" for end-users and developers using Fair Data Protocol

[Fairdrop](https://fairdrop.xyz) - Decentralised file sharing

[Galileo](https://app.galileo.fairdatasociety.org/) - Open Street Maps on Swarm

[Dracula](https://app.dracula.fairdatasociety.org/) - Hackmd-like markdown editor that works with Swarm

[SwarmScan](https://swarmscan.resenje.org/) - Get network insights

[Etherna.io](https://etherna.io/) - Decentralised Youtube on Swarm

[Social Archive](https://socialarchive.info/) - Archive your social media

[Swapchat 2.0](https://swapchat.bzz.link) - Decentralised, ephemeral, peer-to-peer, encrypted chat

[Hacker Manifesto](https://bah5acgza3gsduiek2cykkbj27jd7ug2vpzi3exbsfd76mjujqijcjvmo4mia.bzz.link) - The Hacker Manifesto on Swarm with a community funded postage stamp

[SwarmNFT library](https://github.com/igar1991/SwarmNFT) - JavaScript library for creating NFTs on Ethereum-compatible blockchains and storing content on Swarm

[videoNFT](https://github.com/pabloVoorvaart/videoNFT/) - NFT live streaming with Swarm (winner of EthBerlin3 2022 Freedom to Transact Track)

[DeBoot](https://github.com/awmacpherson/deboot) - DeBoot is a project to research and implement approaches to bootloading OS images from a decentralized storage network such as Swarm or IPFS.

[Swarm DAppNode Package](https://github.com/rndlabs/dappnodepackage-swarm) - Swarm DAppNode package for Swarm Mainnet with multi-platform (x86_64 and arm64) support. Testnet DAppNode packages can be found [here](https://github.com/rndlabs/dappnodepackage-swarm-testnet).

### Miscellaneous

**[`^ back to top ^`](#)**

[Swarm Bot](https://github.com/ethersphere/swarm-bot) - Discord bot handling commands related to Swarm and its community
